data/tuberlin/README.md, before:

## APC data

APC costs payed by TU Berlin Publication Fund for articles in open access journals. Since 2017 TU Berlin Publication Fund is supported by Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG). 

Before 2017 TU Berlin  TU Berlin has already concluded a prepay membership with BMC: APCs for BMC are not paid from the DFG fund. APCs for BMC prepay membership 2017 were reported retrospectively.

2018 report: The data reported for the funding period 2018 include both APCs paid by the TU Berlin DFG fund and by other open access funds of TU Berlin administered by the university library. APCs resulting from BMC prepay membership are included. 

2019 report: The data reported for the funding period 2019 include both APCs paid by the TU Berlin DFG fund and by other open access funds of TU Berlin. APCs resulting from BMC prepay membership and Wiley-DEAL (gold OA journals) are included. The report includes APCs for 2 articles that were funded in 2018, but not included in 2018 report (period=2018).

2020 report: The data reported for the funding period 2020 include both APCs paid by the TU Berlin DFG fund and by other open access funds of TU Berlin. APCs resulting from BMC prepay membership (until July 2020), Wiley-DEAL (gold OA journals) and Springer-DEAL (gold OA journals) are included.

2021 report: The data reported for the funding period 2021 include both APCs paid by the TU Berlin DFG fund and by other open access funds of TU Berlin. APCs resulting from Wiley-DEAL (gold OA journals) and Springer-DEAL (gold OA journals) are included.

2022 report: The data reported for the funding period 2022 include both APCs paid by the TU Berlin DFG fund and by other open access funds of TU Berlin (Gold OA). APCs resulting from Wiley-DEAL (gold OA journals) and Springer-DEAL (gold OA journals) are included.


### Springer Nature DEAL

TU Berlin has joined the DEAL consortium with Springer Nature (cf. [info project DEAL](https://www.projekt-deal.de/springer-nature-contract/). APC or rather PAR fee data is reported for 2019 + 2020 according to the [OpenAPC guidelines](https://github.com/OpenAPC/openapc-de/wiki/Handreichung-Dateneingabe-Transformationsvertr%C3%A4ge-%28DEAL-Wiley-und--Springer-Nature%29-ab-Berichtsjahr-2020)

For 2020 103 articles were published open access as part of this agreement (102 research articles + 4 non-research articles); 3 opt-out articles are reported (initially 12 opt-out articles, 9 of them were published OA retrospectiveley). Hence, data for 106 articles are included; the "equivalent APC" amounts to 1.449,67 EUR.

For 2021 128 articles were published open access as part of this agreement (125 research articles + 4 non-research articles); 1 opt-out article is reported. Hence, data for 129 articles are included; the "equivalent APC" amounts to 1.243,73 EUR.


### Wiley DEAL

TU Berlin has joined the DEAL consortium with Wiley (cf. [info project DEAL](https://www.projekt-deal.de/wiley-contract/). APC or rather PAR fee data is reported for 2019 + 2020 according to the [OpenAPC guidelines](https://github.com/OpenAPC/openapc-de/wiki/Handreichung-Dateneingabe-Transformationsvertr%C3%A4ge-%28DEAL-Wiley-und--Springer-Nature%29-ab-Berichtsjahr-2020)

For 2019 52 articles were published open access as part of this agreement (47 "regular" articles + 5 articles in German Ed. of Angewandte Chemie); no opt-out articles were reported. Hence, the "equivalent APC" amounts to 2.593,21 EUR.

For 2020 104 articles were published open access as part of this agreement (97 "regular" articles + 7 articles in German Ed. of Angewandte Chemie); 3 opt-out articles are reported. Hence, data for 107 articles are included; the "equivalent APC" amounts to 2.402,03 EUR.

For 2021 108 articles were published open access as part of this agreement (102 "regular" articles + 6 articles in German Ed. of Angewandte Chemie); 2 opt-out articles are reported (initially 3 opt-out articles, 1 of them was published OA retrospectiveley). Hence, data for 111 articles are included; the "equivalent APC" amounts to 2.405,86 EUR.


## BPC data

In March 2018, the central publication funds was introduced to fund Book Processing Charges for OA books (monographs or anthologies), when members of TU Berlin are corresponding author(s) or editor(s). Partial funding and combination with other funding streams is possible. There's a maximum funding sum; applicants need to cover exceeding costs themselves. The full OA costs are reported to OpenBPC.


## Contact

Website: https://www.tu.berlin/go5066/
Contact: openaccess@ub.tu-berlin.de

Commit message:

TU Berlin 2022 DEAL (Wiley, Springer); include DEAL postpayment for 2019–2021 (Wiley, Springer)

data/tuberlin/README.md, after:

## APC data

APC costs payed by TU Berlin Publication Fund for articles in open access journals. Since 2017 TU Berlin Publication Fund is supported by Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG). 

Before 2017 TU Berlin  TU Berlin has already concluded a prepay membership with BMC: APCs for BMC are not paid from the DFG fund. APCs for BMC prepay membership 2017 were reported retrospectively.

2018 report: The data reported for the funding period 2018 include both APCs paid by the TU Berlin DFG fund and by other open access funds of TU Berlin administered by the university library. APCs resulting from BMC prepay membership are included. 

2019 report: The data reported for the funding period 2019 include both APCs paid by the TU Berlin DFG fund and by other open access funds of TU Berlin. APCs resulting from BMC prepay membership and Wiley-DEAL (gold OA journals) are included. The report includes APCs for 2 articles that were funded in 2018, but not included in 2018 report (period=2018).

2020 report: The data reported for the funding period 2020 include both APCs paid by the TU Berlin DFG fund and by other open access funds of TU Berlin. APCs resulting from BMC prepay membership (until July 2020), Wiley-DEAL (gold OA journals) and Springer-DEAL (gold OA journals) are included.

2021 report: The data reported for the funding period 2021 include both APCs paid by the TU Berlin DFG fund and by other open access funds of TU Berlin. APCs resulting from Wiley-DEAL (gold OA journals) and Springer-DEAL (gold OA journals) are included.

2022 report: The data reported for the funding period 2022 include both APCs paid by the TU Berlin DFG fund and by other open access funds of TU Berlin (Gold OA). APCs resulting from Wiley-DEAL (gold OA journals) and Springer-DEAL (gold OA journals) are included.


### Springer Nature DEAL

TU Berlin has joined the DEAL consortium with Springer Nature (cf. [info project DEAL](https://www.projekt-deal.de/springer-nature-contract/). APC or rather PAR fee data is reported according to the [OpenAPC guidelines](https://github.com/OpenAPC/openapc-de/wiki/Handreichung-Dateneingabe-Transformationsvertr%C3%A4ge-%28DEAL-Wiley-und--Springer-Nature%29-ab-Berichtsjahr-2020)

For 2020 103 articles were published open access as part of this agreement (102 research articles + 4 non-research articles); 3 opt-out articles are reported (initially 12 opt-out articles, 9 of them were published OA retrospectiveley). Hence, data for 106 articles are included; the "equivalent APC" amounts to 1.799,67 EUR (after postpayment).

For 2021 128 articles were published open access as part of this agreement (125 research articles + 4 non-research articles); 1 opt-out article is reported. Hence, data for 129 articles are included; the "equivalent APC" amounts to 1.661,56 EUR (after postpayment).

For 2022 96 articles were published open access as part of this agreement (93 research articles + 3 non-research articles); 3 opt-out articles are reported. Hence, data for 99 articles are included; the "equivalent APC" amounts to 2.194,82 EUR (after postpayment).

### Wiley DEAL

TU Berlin has joined the DEAL consortium with Wiley (cf. [info project DEAL](https://www.projekt-deal.de/wiley-contract/). APC or rather PAR fee data is reported according to the [OpenAPC guidelines](https://github.com/OpenAPC/openapc-de/wiki/Handreichung-Dateneingabe-Transformationsvertr%C3%A4ge-%28DEAL-Wiley-und--Springer-Nature%29-ab-Berichtsjahr-2020)

For 2019 52 articles were published open access as part of this agreement (47 "regular" articles + 5 articles in German Ed. of Angewandte Chemie); no opt-out articles were reported. Hence, the "equivalent APC" amounts to 2.680,72 EUR (after postpayment).

For 2020 104 articles were published open access as part of this agreement (97 "regular" articles + 7 articles in German Ed. of Angewandte Chemie); 3 opt-out articles are reported. Hence, data for 107 articles are included; the "equivalent APC" amounts to 2.585,21 EUR (after postpayment).

For 2021 108 articles were published open access as part of this agreement (102 "regular" articles + 6 articles in German Ed. of Angewandte Chemie); 2 opt-out articles are reported (initially 3 opt-out articles, 1 of them was published OA retrospectiveley). Hence, data for 111 articles are included; the "equivalent APC" amounts to 2.531,99 EUR (after postpayment).

For 2022 105 articles were published open access as part of this agreement (101 "regular" articles + 4 articles in German Ed. of Angewandte Chemie); 1 opt-out article is reported (initially 4 opt-out articles, 3 of them were published OA retrospectiveley). Hence, data for 106 articles are included; the "equivalent APC" amounts to 2.651,42 EUR (after postpayment).



## BPC data

In March 2018, the central publication funds was introduced to fund Book Processing Charges for OA books (monographs or anthologies), when members of TU Berlin are corresponding author(s) or editor(s). Partial funding and combination with other funding streams is possible. There's a maximum funding sum; applicants need to cover exceeding costs themselves. The full OA costs are reported to OpenBPC.


## Contact

Website: https://www.tu.berlin/go5066/
Contact: openaccess@ub.tu-berlin.de
